1.switch to root:
    sudo su - root
    apt-get update [for update, but if you are not root user it won't work]
    ls -> list file
    

2.create two groups DevOps and developer
    sudo groupadd DevOps
    sudo groupadd developer
    
2.1 create 2 user Indrajit and Deepak
    sudo useradd Indrajit
    sudo useradd Deepak

2.2. How to add password
    sudo passwd Indrajit then you will be asking to set password

3.use visudo for permissions
4.devops should have all permission and also can execute any command where the developer can execute only read-only commands like ls, cat, etc
5.useradd in one shot by adding to the primary group with physically create directory, bash access(one user is john for DevOps and Shane for developer)
6.setup password for both user
    sudo passwd Indrajit
    sudo passwd Deepak

7.create one directory in the root that directory can have read access for only DevOps, not developer group
8.ssh login:- only Shane can log in to Shane user and john can log in to john user but they should not switch to other users.
9.what is the command to become root and define it.
    sudo su - root

10.command to check what is the user
    whoami

11.define to know which current directory.
    pwd

12.cmd to create a file.
    touch hello.txt

12.1 cmd to display file contain
    cat hello.txt

12.2 from where all the cmd coming from?
    all present under bin/

13.types of editors.
14.how to check executable commands are getting from which directory.
15.how to identify hidden files in Linux.
    ls -al -> list all file include hidden file.

16.what is man does.
    man will open manual book such as man ls.

17.command to copy files from a directory recursively.
    cp -> copy file.
    cp -r -> copy directory recursively.

18.command to rename a file.
    mv [OPTIONS] source destination

19.commad to move files and directory.
    mv
20.command to download files from the internet.
    sudo apt-get install wget
    yum install wget
    wget URL
    or 
    wget -r URL

21.what is su.
    The Linux command 'su' is used to switch from one account to another(Switch User).

22.command to install deb files.
    sudo dpkg -i /path/to/deb/file
    sudo apt-get install -f

    sudo apt install ./name.deb
    Or
    sudo apt install /path/to/package/name.deb
    
23.what is deb files?
    deb is used to signify a collection of files managed by the Debian packages management system.

24.what is apt?
    apt is a command-line utility for installing, updating, removing, and otherwise managing deb packages on Ubuntu, Debian, and related Linux distributions.

25.where apt repository persists in Linux.
    /etc/apt/sources

26.define apt-get update.
    Download and update file from the internet whatever mention under /etc/apt/source

27.what are executable commands in Linux.
28.what is $PATH.
    echo $PATH is explicitly giving a command to display the contents of the $PATH variable.

29.what is .bashrc
    The . bashrc file is a script that is executed whenever a new terminal session is started in interactive mode. This is what happens when you open a new terminal window by pressing Ctrl + Alt + T , or just open a new terminal tab

30.what is id_rsa.pub and id_rsa
    If you are asking in relation to SSH, id_rsa is an RSA key and can be used with the SSH protocol 1 or 2, whereas id_dsa is a DSA key and can only be used with SSH protocol 2.

31..where above two key are located in directory
    both the file store under ~/.ssh/ folder structure.

32.command to create use with one shot including group, user, directory and bash
33.command to add the group.
34.command to add the user.
35.command to delete the group.
36.command to delete user.
38.command to add the password to the user.
39.command to view the sudoers file.
40.command to change ownership and group of file/directory.
41.explain 4,2,1,0 in Linux
42.write command to change permission for the user group and other let's say read for the user, execute for the group, and nothing for others.