1. How DNS works?
    Domain Names: 
    A domain name is a human-readable name—like amazon.com—that we type in a web browser URL field. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) manages  these domain names

    Top Level Domain (TLD):
    TLD refers to the last part of a domain name. For example, the .com in amazon.com is the Top Level Domain. The most common TLDs include .com, .net, org, and .info. Country code TLDs represent specific geographic locations. For example: .in represents India. Here are some more examples:

    com – Commercial businesses.
    gov – U.S. government agencies.
    edu – Educational institutions such as universities.
    org – Organizations (mostly non-profit).
    mil – Military.
    net – Network organizations.
    eu – European Union.
    Second Level Domain
    This is the part of a domain name which comes right before the TLD—amazon.com—for example.

    Sub Domain:
    A subdomain can be created to identify unique content areas of a web site. For example, the aws of aws.amazon.com.

    Domain Name Registrar:
    By managing domain name reservations, name registrars are critical to how DNS works. ICANN currently grants permission to organizations to act as domain name registrars for specific higher level domains.

    Name Server:
    Like a phone book, the name server is a collection of domain names matched to IP addresses.

    How DNS Works: Domain Name System record types
    A Record
    Address record. A Records map server IP addresses to domain names. For example, 72.21.206.6 to amazon.com.

    CNAME
    Canonical Name record. A CNAME record establishes one domain as an alias to another (thereby routing all traffic addressed to the alias to the target; the canonical address).

    Alias Record
    Like a CNAME record, Alias records can be used to map one address to another. But Aliases can coexist with other records using the same name.

    MX Record
    Mail Exchange Record. These records will redirect a domain’s email to the servers hosting the domain’s user accounts. Mail exchange records are used for determining the priority of email servers for a domain.

    How DNS Works
    When a user types a human-readable address into the browser, the operating system’s DNS client will check for information in a local cache. If the requested address isn’t there, it will look for a Domain Name System server in the local area network (LAN). When the local DNS server receives the query, and the requested domain name is found, it will return the result.

    If the name is not found, the local server will forward the query to a DNS cache server, often provided by the Internet Service Provider (ISP). Since the DNS server’s cache contains a temporary store of DNS records, it will quickly respond to requests. These DNS cache servers are called not authoritative DNS servers as they provide request resolution based in a cached value acquired from authoritative DNS servers.

    An Authoritative Root Name Server maintains and provides a list of authoritative name servers for each of the top-level domains (.com, .org, etc.).

    An Authoritative Top Level Domain Name Server maintains and provides a list of authoritative name servers for all domains (gmail.com, wikipedia.org, etc.). Its job is to query name servers to find and return the authoritative name server for the requested domain.

    Now that we’ve got a better idea of how DNS works, the next post will introduce you Amazon’s Route53 and show you how easy it can be to migrate your existing domains to it.

    If you’re new to Amazon Route53, this is your go-to course Working with AWS’s Domain Name System: Amazon Route 53

    link:
        https://cloudacademy.com/blog/how-dns-works/
        https://www.verisign.com/en_IN/website-presence/online/how-dns-works/index.xhtml

2. what is Registrar?
    A domain name registrar is a business that handles the reservation of domain names as well as the assignment of IP addresses for those domain names. Domain names are alphanumeric aliases used to access websites; for example Google’s domain name is ‘google.com’ and their IP address is 192.168.1.1. Domain names make it easier to access websites without having to memorize and enter numeric IP addresses

    It should be noted that registrars don’t actually manage and maintain domain names; that part is done by a domain name registry.

3. What’s the difference between a registrar and a registry?
    Registries are organizations that manage top-level domains (TLDs) such as domains ending in ‘.com’ and ‘.net’. These registries are managed by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), a department of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).

    Registries delegate the commercial sales of domain name registrations to registrars. For example, VeriSign is the registry for ‘.com’ domains. When a registrar sells a ‘.com’ domain registration to a user, the registrar must notify VeriSign in order to properly reserve the domain. The registrar must also pay VeriSign a fee, which is factored into the price that the registrar charges the end user.

    It's much like a car dealership. A customer who is interested in buying a car steps into the showroom and is shown the available cars by a knowledgeable sales associate. If the customer chooses to buy a car (not one already in stock, for this example), the dealership must then order the car from a manufacturer. The customer ultimately picks up the car and receives customer service from the dealership.

    A registrar is like a dealership for domain names, and the registry is like the manufacturer. The registrar facilitates the transactions and provides support services, while the registry is in charge of producing and delivering the goods. It should be noted that a key difference between registering a domain and buying a car is that cars can be owned by consumers, domain names cannot.

    link: 
    https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name-registrar/#:~:text=A%20domain%20name%20registrar%20is,addresses%20for%20those%20domain%20names.

4. what is NameServer?
    A name server is a specialized server on the Internet that handles queries or questions from your local computer, about the location of a domain name’s various services.

    A great simple way to think about name servers is using a phone book analogy. If you were trying to call InMotion Hosting you might have remembered our phone number, but more than likely you’d want to look it up before just guessing at numbers.

    This same story is also true for the Internet and domain names. As an example you’re reading this article right now on our InMotionHosting.com domain name.

5. what is DNS manager?
    All of your domains are listed under the Domains heading. To access your Domain’s DNS records, click the name of a Domain.

    Click the name of a domain to add or edit its DNS records. When you add a domain, the Cloud Manager will automatically create a zone file for your Domain. Before you can add any DNS records, you must add a domain.

    Note
    A domain zone is a collection of DNS records for a single domain name. Creating a domain also creates its corresponding domain zone. Linode’s APIv4, which is the backbone of the Cloud Manager, will validate the created zone file for any errors.

    The term domain zone becomes synonymous with the term domain, both in terms of use and administration.

    If you have a zone that can be exported from a server or another hosting provider, click Import a Zone to import it.

    Click Add a Domain to create a new domain zone.

    Click on the more options ellipsis to corresponding to a domain zone to edit DNS records within a zone, clone an existing zone, or remove a zone.

    link: https://www.linode.com/docs/platform/manager/dns-manager/

6. what is the port of DNS?
    A DNS server uses well-known port 53 for all its UDP activities and as its server port for TCP. It uses a random port above 1023 for TCP requests. A DNS client uses a random port above 1023 for both UDP and TCP.

7. What are the most common types of DNS record?
    A record - The record that holds the IP address of a domain. Learn more about the A record.
    CNAME record - Forwards one domain or subdomain to another domain, does NOT provide an IP address. Learn more about the CNAME record.
    MX record - Directs mail to an email server. Learn more about the MX record.
    TXT record - Lets an admin store text notes in the record. Learn more about the TXT record.
    NS record - Stores the name server for a DNS entry. Learn more about the NS record.
    SOA record - Stores admin information about a domain. Learn more about the SOA record.
    SRV record - Specifies a port for specific services. Learn more about the SRV record.
    PTR record - Provides a domain name in reverse-lookups. Learn more about the PTR record.

    link: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/

8. What is a reverse proxy?
    A reverse proxy is a server that sits in front of web servers and forwards client (e.g. web browser) requests to those web servers. Reverse proxies are typically implemented to help increase security, performance, and reliability. In order to better understand how a reverse proxy works and the benefits it can provide, let’s first define what a proxy server is.

    link: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/

9. What’s a proxy server?
    A forward proxy, often called a proxy, proxy server, or web proxy, is a server that sits in front of a group of client machines. When those computers make requests to sites and services on the Internet, the proxy server intercepts those requests and then communicates with web servers on behalf of those clients, like a middleman.

    For example, let’s name 3 computers involved in a typical forward proxy communication:

    A: This is a user’s home computer
    B: This is a forward proxy server
    C: This is a website’s origin server (where the website data is stored)

10. What is Propagation and How Long Does it Take?
    Name server changes usually take 24 to 48 hours to fully start working. This period, called propagation, is the projected length of time it takes for root name servers and cache records across the entire web to be updated with your website's DNS information. Because of propagation, not all visitors will be directed to your new name servers on your new hosting account; some visitors will continue to be directed to your old name servers on your old hosting account until propagation is complete.

    How quickly visitors are directed to the new name servers depends on their physical location, internet service provider and some luck; it is not something HostGator has control over. Once propagation is complete, your site will appear on our server and your email will be fully functional.

    There is no definitive way to tell when propagation is complete. During the first 48 hours, even if you are able to see your site on the new server, your next door neighbor might still be seeing the site on the old server.

    link: https://www.hostgator.com/help/article/when-will-my-domain-start-working-propagation

11. what is registry?
    A domain name registry is a database of all domain names and the associated registrant information in the top level domains of the Domain Name System (DNS) of the Internet that enables third party entities to request administrative control of a domain name.